Step 1: Click on the Start button and then click on the Settings icon.
Step 2: From the Settings window, click on the Privacy.
Step 3: In the next window, click on Diagnostics & Feedback tab from the left panel and then set Diagnostics and usage data to Basic.
Now, go to Activity history and turn off the options shown here. Uncheck the boxes for – Store my activity history on this device and Send my activity history to Microsoft.
Now go to Inking & Typing personalization, here turn off the toggle switch for typing suggestions.
Similarly, go to Speech and turn off the toggle switch for not giving any voice sample to Microsoft from time to time.
Now under the General tab, turn off all the options that collect user data and send it to Microsoft.

If you do not wish to provide any information to Microsoft, you can use the below steps to Disable Telemetry and Data Collection.
Step 1; Type in Regedit into the Windows 10 search box and press enter. Alternatively,  press Windows Key + R to run command and type regedit and click on OK.
Step 2: Navigate to the Following trees from the sideboard pane:"HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Policies\Microsoft\Windows\DataCollection."
Step 3: In the right panel, right-click in space, and go to New, select DWORD value (32-bit). Name it AllowTelemetry.
Double click on the AllowTelemetry and set the value to 0 and click on OK.

Once you have Disabled Telemetry and Data collection using the Registry Editor, you need to turn OFF “Connected User Experience” and “dmwappushsvc” services. 
This is necessary to disable Telemetry on your Windows 10 computer fully. To do so, follow the steps below:
Step 1: Press Windows + R keys to open the Run command window. On the Run command window, type services.msc and click on the OK button.
Step 2: In the Services window, scroll down and double-click on Connected User Experiences and Telemetry.
Step 3: On the next screen, disable Connected User Experiences and Telemetry by setting Startup Type to Disabled. Now click on Apply to make changes.
Step 4: Now find another service named dmwappushsvc service in the Services window and double click on it.
Step 5: Here, disable dmwappushsvc service by setting the Startup Type to Disable and click on Apply.

Using Group Policy
Step 1: Open Group Policy with the run command. Press Windows Key + R to open Run Command and type gpedit.msc. Click on OK or press Enter.
Step 2: This opens a new window named Local Group Policy Editor. Here you can need to look for –
"Computer Configuration> Administrative Templates> Windows Components> Data collection and Preview Builds."
Step 3: Double click on the Data Collection and Preview Builds, and you will see options on the right pane. Now double click on Allow Telemetry.
Step 4: Under the section Allow Telemetry, click on option Disabled. To apply the changes applied, click Apply.

Using Task Scheduler

Step 1: Open Start Menu and type Task Scheduler on the search bar. Click on the option to appear on the Menu.
Step 2: In this Tab, Go to: "Task Scheduler Library>Microsoft>Windows>Customer Experience Improvement Program."
Step 3: Right-click on the task named Consolidator and Disable it. Repeat the process with all other tasks mentioned in this section.
